what happens after your architect
registration board examination
welcome to the UK architect registration
board the ARB protects consumers and
supports our cadets by requiring certain
standards of education training and
practice of those on its register only
those who are registered with the ARB
can use the title architect in the
course of business within the UK we've
put together a series of videos to help
you through the process of registering
with us this video is about what happens
after your exam
the results you'll receive written
confirmation of your result within three
weeks ARB appreciates this is often a
stressful time and we'll endeavor to get
the results out as soon as possible
there are three possible outcomes you
have passed you have failed but
qualified for referral to lead examiner
as you've met all the criteria in GC 1
together with a further 32 criteria this
is offered at a substantially reduced
fee and you're not required to attend
another examination but can submit
additional evidence that is sent to the
lead examiner for review you have failed
and need to apply for re-examination you
will be re-examined against all the
criteria and are required to pay the
examination fee again the examiners will
provide written feedback on the report
form to all those who have failed the
exam
you can apply for re-examination at
anytime and are allowed to further
attempts but it is vital to read and
understand the examiner's report to
ensure you've sufficiently covered the
outstanding criteria before submitting
your application for re-examination
appeal crowns for appeal are outlined in
appendix 2 of the examination procedures
on the ARP website these include a
defect or irregularity in the way the
exam was carried out or for special
circumstances for example an illness or
family bereavement that was not known to
the examiners at the time of your exam
you can appeal for these reasons only
not just because you're dissatisfied by
the result contact us if you have read
all the documentation available to you
and still have questions do call a
member of the registration team we'll be
more than happy to help a or B staff can
advise about the process but are not
qualified to offer advice on supporting
material and leave this area of
expertise to academics within schools of
architecture you may find it helpful to
visit end-of-year exhibitions at UK
schools of architecture to look at the
work of part 1 and part 2 students this
will give you a good idea of the work
that's produced in line with the AR B's
criteria but please be mindful this work
may not show the students sketches and
other development work and you're
required to do so for the purpose of the
exam some schools also run workshops for
potential exam candidates and if you're
interested in attending one of these
please do ask a member of the
registration team for further
information on behalf of the ARB i wish
you every success in your quest to
obtain part one and all pod -
equivalents
you